Orientation control
-------------------

build obstacles on the quaternion sphere
	how to design a curve on S^3: theory and *software*
	(designing a *closed* curve)
design a path through these obstacles
	shortest path motion amongst polygons in 2D (visibility graph)
	shortest path motion amongst curves in 2D
	shortest path motion amongst curves on S^2: geodesics become circles
	shortest path motion amongst curves on S^3
	    - does a curve really bound a region on S^3, since S^3 is a solid, not a surface?
	    - do we need to generalize shortest path motion in 3D?
camera control literature

projects
	*software releases*: Doug?  Writing code is poetic and healthy.

	  	interpolating curves and surfaces
		tangential curves and surfaces
		bitangents and bitangent developables
		visibility graphs in 2D
		silhouettes in 3D
		visibility regions in 2D
		quaternion splines
	
		1st webable unit: interpolating curves
		1st publishable unit: bitangent developables; silhouettes

	start the seminar series officially in last week of July: Fridays at 1pm
		July 30: me about projects generally; then about tangential varieties and software
		August 6: me about quaternions and quaternion splines
		August 13: Xiao about visibility and shadows literature review
		August 20: Leonard about motion planning literature review; report on SIGGRAPH
		August 27: Xiao about vizwall; Gopal about ME vizwall?
	meet every other week with Tony/Puri?
		September 3: me about kernels
		September 10: me about bitangent developables and silhouettes
		September 17: me and Xin about protein folding
		September 24: Xiao: further review of visibility literature
		October 1: camera control literature
		Oct. 8:    medical projects (with ME)
		Oct. 15:   Chengzui Zhang research
		Oct. 22:   progress report Xiao, Leonard
		Oct. 29:   progress report me
		Nov.   :   parallel visibility	
		Nov    :   software release meeting  (monthly)
		Nov    :   parallel computation meeting (monthly)
		Nov    :   theory of visibility (monthly)
		Nov    :   practice of visibility: software (monthly)
		Vetria about summer project

	START GETTING SOFTWARE READY

	bitangency: software up (silhouettes)
	Xiao: invisibility in smooth 2d and 3d
	kernel
	Leonard: orientation control
	James: morphing(?)/decomposition(?)
	vizwall: SIGGRAPH reading
	(parallel visibility: memory access of visible regions)
	((numerical))
	((bioinformatics visualization))
		
