From jimbo@scr.siemens.com Mon Aug  2 13:01:08 1999
X-SCR-Return-Path: <jimbo@exchange.scr.siemens.com>   (as seen by scr.siemens.com)
From: "Williams, James" <jimbo@scr.siemens.com>
To: "'jj@cis.uab.edu'" <jj@cis.uab.edu>
Subject: RE: Back from trip!
Date: Mon, 2 Aug 1999 13:59:44 -0400
MIME-Version: 1.0

Hi John,

I've downloaded the paper and have read it once. Now I am going
through section by section and trying to resolve some of my questions.

I am currently looking at section 5 and this is what I am thinking about:

	We know that minimizing length of the hull in R^4 is not exactly
what we want
	to do to minimize projected length of the curve. I think by choosing
the first
	inverse image point (q1) on S^3, q2 will be forced to be chosen
closer to the
	origin than q1 and so on by the closest point restriction. 
	
	My worry can be illustrated by the example of spokes on a bicycle
wheel.
	Imagine q1 is on the rim and q2 must be on the adjacent spoke --
since the
	closest point on a line to a given point is connected with the given
point via
	a segment perpendicular to the line, q2 must be closer to the hub
than q2 and
	successive points (q3...qn) spiral inwards towards the hub in what
is probably
	a perfect nautilus-like spiral. This can be verified by running the
interpolation
	code and checking if successice points are each closer to the
origin.

	One brute-force solution would be to just treat this as a blind
optimization problem
	where the objective function is length of the quaternion curve and
each point contributes 
	a single parameter. The objective function could also be replaced
with Barr's objective
	function and we would get a rational solution which minimizes Barr's
criterion. The drawback
	is that the optimization becomes expensive as the number of
parameters grows. 

	I think that perhaps choosing q1..qn to be on S^3 might produce a
result similar to the
	given choice method. Maybe these options should be state, but not
explored in this
	paper. I think it would be worth trying to optimize this choice with
a canned minimization 
	routine (Powells method is good) vs. Barr's covariant acceleration
criterion. Do you have
	a masters student / undergrad who might be interested in this as a
project? It would
	be interesting to know if Barr's criterion is unimodal (doubtful)
wrt. the choice of
	inverse image.

	I will continue reading...

Regards,
Jim





From jimbo@scr.siemens.com Mon Aug  2 13:38:36 1999
X-SCR-Return-Path: <jimbo@exchange.scr.siemens.com>   (as seen by scr.siemens.com)
From: "Williams, James" <jimbo@scr.siemens.com>
To: "'jj@cis.uab.edu'" <jj@cis.uab.edu>
Subject: RE: Back from trip!
Date: Mon, 2 Aug 1999 14:37:13 -0400
MIME-Version: 1.0



If your interested, I have the multivariate optimization code 
sitting around. I use it in a registration package. It is just
from the Numerical Recipes CD, but quite effective. 

Jim


