From jj Thu Jul 15 10:45:00 1999
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 1999 10:44:59 -0500 (CDT)
From: John Johnstone <jj>
To: jimbo@scr.siemens.com
Subject: Paper done!
Cc: jj
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-MD5: x7/3LCDg3zP4fDl5P+uRAA==

Jim,

3 cheers!  I finally have a final version of our quaternion spline paper
for you to read.  Then we can submit this baby.
I think that Transactions on Graphics is the most appropriate forum:
it is the best journal for graphics and caters to a more theoretically
based paper.  Also they published a quaternion spline paper recently
(Park and Ravani's in '97).  TOG should get us the type of referee
that we want.

This has been a real labour of love.
I have been refining the paper for the past couple of years,
off and on, interspersed between other research and dropping it for a
while quite often when there was a problem I couldn't solve to my satisfaction.
It was a bit like putting a box A into another box B that is only just a little
bit larger than A, the solution kept jamming in one corner when I succeeded
to get it fit properly in another corner.
It took a long while to realize what exactly was going on and make
the correct choice for several issues in the right permutation.
In my humble opinion, it now holds together real well
and has some good motivation for each decision.

There are some definite changes/additions/improvements from the conference paper
and last version of the journal paper, so read carefully.
Here are the highlights:

- have a more cohesive motivation of the overall approach
	 of designing in Euclidean space.

- have coordinate-frame invariance

- have full comparison with other quaternion splines,
	with excellent results

- have three methods for perturbing the data away from the pole (1,0,0,0),
	ranging from very simple to heuristic to optimal
	
- have characterization of all maps of R4 to S3

- now choose closest point on inverse image line (Section 5)
	(this has a more natural motivation, and leads to better results
	 when comparing to other quaternion splines in Section 9)
	 
- have different title, emphasizing the traits that distinguish this
	paper from the previous work on quaternion splines
	I wrote the entire paper with a focus on introducing a better
	rational quaternion spline.  I think it works better keeping this 
	uppermost throughout the paper.
	
	
I have thought (and tried) every conceivable other approach to writing
or implementing this method.
So I think this is a keeper.
For example, I don't introduce derivative data, since the choice of closest
point in Section 5 (which we want for its superior performance in the results,
and its more natural motivation) has trouble with derivatives.
(I can give you details if you are interested.)
I may want to pursue this issue in a future paper.
For now though, it is better to separate the best rational quaternion spline
without derivative data from the best rational quaternion splines
with derivative data.
It also overcomplicates the presentation (which is already pretty dense)
to introduce derivatives.

I have placed a copy of the paper on my web site
(see http://www.cis.uab.edu/info/faculty/jj/cos.html)
It is in acrobat format.
If you have any trouble getting it, let me know.
There is also a short companion paper that I wrote to address
the claim that one of Hoschek's group had that the map M is nothing
but stereographic projection.
You may want to take a look at this paper too, although
it is not necessary for a full reading of the main paper.

Would you let me know when you have successfully downloaded the paper?
I think I'll take the paper offline after that, at least until 
you've sent in comments and we've submitted the paper.

Would it be possible for you to read the paper and get me comments by the 
end of July?
Thanks a lot.

How's everything at Siemens and the GRASP lab?

Best regards,
John

