Dear Prof. Dietz, 

I appreciate your thoughtful reading of our paper.
You make some very good points.

> M(a,b,c,d,1) is nothing else than stereographic projection of the
> point (0,a,b,c,d) onto S^3 with the center of projection (1,0,0,0,1).

This is a good observation.  I should certainly have noted this.
The biggest impact this has for application of these curves is the
singularity at the center of projection.
That is, the curve in image space should avoid the x4=0 hyperplane.
Fortunately, this singularity can be avoided in practical applications,
partly because of the fact that antipodal points represent the
same orientation.  However, I need to elaborate on this in the paper.

> Interpolating curves constructed by M depend on the chosen coordinate system,
> since the center of projection is fixed.

Invariance under coordinate transformation
is not a problem for the application of this work to animation,
since the exact curve generated for an animation is less important
than the fact that it is a good one.

>  If the P^4-curve is set up as cubic curve, not all sextic rational curves
>  on the S^3 are representable by M. In this sence the representation is not
>  complete.

>  There is no reason why a cubic B-spline curve should be converted to
>  Bezier representation when mapped to the S^3. How to multiply B-splines
>  can be found in e.g.
>  Morken, K.: Some identities for products and degree raising of splines,
>              Construct. Approx. 7 (1991), 195-208
>  Dietz, R.; Hoschek, J.; Juettler, B.: Rational patches on quadrics,
>              Computer-Aided Design 27 (1995), 27-40

We were aware that B-splines could have been mapped back directly.
However, recall that we do not stipulate either the form of the interpolating
curve in image space or the form of the interpolating curve on the 3-sphere.
We wish to allow any form, as long as it represents rational curves.
(This is motivated by the large number of papers
on different versions of quaternion curves built around spherical interpolation,
including B-spline, Hermite, Catmull-Rom, etc. -- see the discussion of related
work.)
Section 8 is simply an *example* of how the image of a curve could be computed
in the popular case of the Bezier curve.

I need to clarify these issues in the paper.
Thanks again for your input.

Best regards,
John




