From jj Tue Oct  4 12:02 CDT 1994
Return-Path: <jj>
Received: by cis.uab.edu (5.0/SMI-SVR4)
	id AA24212; Tue, 4 Oct 1994 12:02:29 -0500
Date: Tue, 4 Oct 1994 12:02:29 -0500
From: jj (John Johnstone)
Message-Id: <9410041702.AA24212@cis.uab.edu>
To: jimbo@blaze.cs.jhu.edu
Subject: Status
Cc: jj
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 3468
Status: OR

What's your status?  I think we should put together a timetable for
producing this paper.  Have you read over the text I sent you?
 
        I am concentrating right now on getting a working
        implementation.  I feel that our theory needs to be
        tested out so that we know where any weaknesses are
        and where to push.  The problem of visualizing the
        quaternion curves in 3d has been solved elegantly by
        noticing that a unit quaternion (x0,x1,x2,0,x4), that
        is with x3=0, is mapped to a point in 4space with x2=0,
        so we can visualize in 3d by zeroing the x3 coordinate
        of all our quaternions.  This is similar to Barr et. al's
        trick for quaternion curve visualization.

        I'm making good progress, and am in the middle of the
        fitting code right now (that is, fitting cubic Bezier
        to our 4d data in 4space).

        The implementation has already yielded some insight
        (e.g., the inverse image of the quaternion (1,0,0,0)
        is the entire x4=0 hyperplane, rather than a single point;
        this is the only exception to the M^{-1} map)
        
        Once I get the implementation somewhat stable,
        I want to pursue the speed-of-sweep issue (ie, arc length
        of quaternion curve) to make sure that the animation
        spreads its change of orientation over the entire curve.
        I have already thought about that, but need to test out
        some ideas.  

        I have browsed over your paper (although you should
        learn Latex! :) ) I am also writing up a formal document.
        I want to try to factor the animation aspects out from
        the solid modeling, and make two papers or at least
        make sure that the two applications, which have different
        requirements, don't get confused in the formal development
        of the theory.


        There is a Nov. 1 deadline for both the Solid Modeling
        conference and for Graphics Interface (the Canadian graphics
        meeting, a good alternative to SIGGRAPH). 
        This falls into the two paper idea too: animation to
        Graphics Interface and swept surface to Solid Modeling,
        if there is enough.  Otherwise choose the best application
        and just send it to one.
        So ... Nov. 1 is the goal.
        When I get something for you to look at, probably a rough
        draft of the paper, I'll send it on to you.
        Since I'm concentrating on the animation aspects right now,
        you might be most useful concentrating on the swept surface
        side of the story, getting back to the old canal surface
        and (c,r,o) issues, and figuring out what the problems there are.
        For example, it would be very useful if you could get a good,
        terse description (in Latex so that it is fully readable and
        typeset ready for submission, mostly fully readable) of your
        work on building up PH orientation curves (the more general
        version of Farouki's stuff that we were going to submit to
        Mathematics of Surfaces).  

        Also, can you resurrect your code on Dietz/Hoschek and 
        send it to me?  Our paper will certainly refer to their
        work on spherical curves and it would be good to have
        some comparative figures of our 4d-spherical curves and their
        3d-spherical curves, as well as a toolbox to fool around with.
                  
Cheers,
John

