Jim,

Very nice.  You write very well.
I particularly like Figures 6 and 7.
Good job of motivating the rational rep via the reaction diffusion example.

Most of my comments are small points.
My only larger concern 
is about the singularity of the rotation function at (1,0,0,0).
This will occur whenever the axis tangent points along (0,0,1),
since that corresponds to `no rotation'.
In practice, this will only occur if one of the discrete frames Fk
points along the axis tangent, so we should avoid these frames
(by tweaking them just a bit).
You could easily work this in on p. 4 at the place where you
note that the `identity quaternion has a multitude of inverses'.
Simply note that this non-unique inverse causes a singularity in 
the orientation curve, so any frame Fk with qk=(1,0,0,0,1)
should be perturbed slightly, or the orientation function
in this neighbourhood computed by rotating the frames to a new location,
computing the orientation function, and rotating back
[The only problem in the latter solution is making sure
that the two parts meet with tangent continuity when you splice
them back together, but I think we can do this by specifying end
tangent conditions in the interpolation phase in 4-space.]

On to the other points:

p. 2: '(0,0,0) is the reference point':
	what do you mean by this?  remove it?

p. 3: just above formula (2), should be 
	`... that rotates \cal{E} into \cal{F}(t) as R(t).'
	and just after formula (2), no need to redefine R(t), C(s,t)
	and D(t) (probably a typo)

p. 3: `In this paper, ... as algorithmic black boxes':
	no need for this sentence

p. 3: Figure 2: oh-oh! origin is not inside the curve C(s,t)!
	(above, you say that you assume that it is)

p. 3: `Hereinafter when we refer to quaternions we imply unit quaternions
	*unless otherwise specified*.'
		you never use non-unit quaternions, so ditch the `unless
	otherwise specified'.

p. 3: `in the form q=(s,v) where s is ... and $v \in R^3$ as the vector
	component', just to be crystal clear

p. 3: in the `It is possible' paragraph: change `t' subscripts
	to 'k'

p. 3: 'indirect' may have some negative connotations?  perhaps just `a method'

p. 4: `For the moment, ...'
	I don't see anywhere that you change from `uniform' knot sequences,
	so better remove `For the moment' qualification.
	And rather than using the term `uniform' which in the context
	of knot sequences means '0,1,2,3,4,...',
	don't you mean `we also require the knot sequence of all cross-sections
	to be identical.'
	By the way, this isn't an unusual assumption, since
	all tensor-product Bspline surfaces also assign the same knot sequence
	to all isoparametric curves.

p. 5: in discussion of Frenet frame problems:
	`as is the case at inflections or along linear portions of curves'
	Definitely want to mention inflections, since they are more common.
	Could remove `entirely linear curves' since that is a special case
	of `linear portions of curves'.

p. 5: `... it is desirable to keep sequential points interpolated by the
	orientation as close as possible.'
	What do you mean by this?
	Do you mean that `it is desirable to minimize the difference in 
	orientation between consecutive points'?

p. 5: `The minimal rotation frame sequence that we develop depends
	only on first-order moments of the main axis and is therefore
	invariant under rigid transformations'
	The finite frames, built to minimize twist, will indeed be invariant
	under rigid transformation, 
	but remember that the intermediate frames won't be,
	since the orientation function is not invariant,
	as it always uses the same stereographic projection (see Dietz letter).
	So the entire RDGC won't be invariant.

p. 6: `The total rotation ... is ... R1^t R2'
	Should be R2 R1^t since matrix multiplication is right-to-left.

p. 6: What is A and B in the solution for \theta?

p. 6: Section 6, point 3:
	To be fair, you should mention that not all cross-sections are 
	guaranteed to be perpendicular to the main axis, just the
	cross-sections at the parameter values t1,...tn;
	but this is inevitable given our goal of defining
	a rational generalized cylinder, since the only way to define a rational
	generalized cylinder with the cross-section at every point
	perpendicular to the axis is to restrict the axis
	to the special class of Pythagorean hodograph curves (see
	\cite{Farouki et. al.} for a defn of this class of curves).

p. 6: Why is it so bad for the cross-sections to become non-planar?

p. 7: What page is that incremental interpolation method from an initial
	estimate in Farin? (My own interest only.)

p. 7: First paragraph of section 7:
	`... which is dependent on surface curvature *k* at that point'
	(otherwise takes a while to realize that K means curvature
	down below)

p. 7: Again for my own interest only: how often does a control point
	get bonded to the surface (by touching the surface)?
	I was worried that all control points would eventually converge
	to the surface and then be bonded, which seems inelegant.

p. 1-8: Make sure to run through a spell checker at the end to 
	catch the typos.

Again, good job.

John
	
	

