Myung-Soo,

I finally have time to think about research calmly after finals week.
Belated thanks for the packet of papers and proceedings.
I'd definitely like to work on some research with you and Gershon.
I have been following and have greatly enjoyed your recent work with Elber 
on the bisector and intersection of ruled/ringed surfaces.

We have considerably different approaches to the preliminary step of
the convex hull, the computation of the developable surfaces that straddle
the concavities, which will be difficult to merge since you work in primal
space while I heavily leverage duality to work in dual space.
However, computing the bitangent developables is only 
the beginning of the road to the convex hull and the best way to extract
the convex hull from these developables is something I would like to work on.
(I have thought more about the curve case than the surface case so far.)
If I can make no contributions to your work on the convex hull problem, 
then there are other spinoffs of this work that we could start fresh on,
such as motion planning.

So that we are clear, I will be submitting
a journal version of the SMI02 submission that I sent you 
('Of tangential surfaces and bitangent developables'),
with fuller proofs and specific treatment for Bezier surfaces.
Since this deals with the dual approach to the pure computation of
bitangent developables, without application to problems such as the convex hull
or visibility analysis or motion etc., I view this as separate from the
convex hull problem.  Let me know if this is a problem for you.
A good analogy may be provided by the bisector.
I see the relationship between the bitangent developable and the convex hull
as similar to the relationship between the bisector and the Voronoi diagram:
the bisector is the main tool used in the computation of the Voronoi diagram,
yet there is much still to be said about the computation of Voronoi diagrams
once it is understood how to compute bisectors.
Similarly, given the bitangent developables, I believe that there
is still something to say about the computation of convex hulls.

I look forward to a productive collaboration!
I will be in touch.

Have a jolly holiday season and Happy New Year!

Cheers,
John
