CK, thanks for the notes.
I'm glad we both went over it since we each found some things
that the other missed.
Here are some comments:

They want current addresses in the title,
so I changed yours to Northern Michigan University (and
of course mine to UAB).

I added `solid modeling' to the list of Additional Key Words
and Phrases on p. 1.  What do you think?

What do you think of adding the following two sentences to
the abstract, just before `Using the theory developed ...':
	Degenerate cases are frequent in geometric/solid
	modeling, because degeneracies are often required
	by design.  Their detection is important because
	degenerate intersections can be computed more easily
	and allow simpler treatment of important problems.

I think that we need some motivation in the abstract (which
may be the only thing people read).

Let me know what you think of this before I send it off.

I seem to remember that Sederberg has written a paper that
we should add to the previous work on intersection curves
of two algebraic surfaces.  I'll have to look it up, and 
I'll add it if I can find it.

Did Goldman and Miller ever publish anything in a journal
on their degenerate intersection work?  It's been a while
since we sent this off and I don't want to forget anything
that has come out recently.  

p. 2, end of 3rd paragraph of Section 2, I changed
	Miller [1987] also provides an incomplete enumeration.
to
	Miller [1987] also provides a partial enumeration
which is more diplomatic.

The script Q's in their typesetting look terrible (not
at all like Q's)  so I've changed all the script Q's
to normal Q's.  For example, p. 2 bottom, Lemma 4.2 proof, etc.

I think at top of p. 7 before the algorithm I should add
	where Q_i is an axial natural quadric with vertex V_i
	axis l_i and half angle \alpha_i (if Q_i is a cone).

since the angle is used in step 3.

Are Rebeis and Rehbock truly separate publications?
It is unusual that they have exactly the same title and
the same year of publication!?

p. 9, before the algorithm, I added (again because the vertices,
and axes are used in the alg):

	Based on this theorem, the following algorithm computes
	the intersection conic of the two cones C_1(V_1,l_1,\alpha_1)
	and C_2(V_2,l_2,\alpha_2).
where the C are script letters.

p. 11, Remark 7.1: The first sentence appears redundant.
	I propose to eliminate it, add the 1991c reference
	above at:
		Recently, Shene and Johnstone [1991a,1991c]
		and Goldman and Miller ...
	and remove the `Moreover,' from the second sentence
	of Remark 7.1


p. 12 just before Corollary 7.1, I propose to remove the
	`also' from `also reported from Goldman and Miller'
	which will give them the appropriate credit.

I found a few other typos, but nothing major.

Please let me know as soon as possible what you think
of all of these comments, since I will need to send
the galleys off tomorrow morning.


Thanks.

John
